Chapter 1 - General Requirements

100 - Application of Rules and Special Instructions

100.1 Employees must know and comply with rules, instructions, and procedures that govern their

duties. They must also comply with the instructions of supervisors. When there is

uncertainty, employees must:

	1. Take the safe course, and
	
	2. Contact a supervisor for clarification.
	
100.2 When rules and special instructions conflict, the following apply:

	1. Special instructions supersede rules;
	
	2. Dispatcher messages supersede special instructions and rules; and
	
	3. Form EC-1 instructions supersede dispatcher messages, special instructions, and
	
rules.

100.3 Employees that have been provided a railroad supplied electronic device must have the

device available for use and must ensure the device is:

	1. In good working condition,
	
	2. Fully charged,
	
	3. Updated with the latest rule books and special instructions that are in effect, and
	
	4. Powered on during the entire tour of duty in order to receive vital software updates.
	
100.4 When on duty, each CSX employee must be in possession of his or her own copy of, or have

electronic access to, the documents below. Foreign line employee operating on CSX tracks

must have at least one of each of the below documents available for immediate use.

	1. Rule books specified by system bulletin,
	
	2. Applicable timetable instructions,
	
	3. System bulletins, and
	
	4. Applicable subdivision bulletins.
	
100.5 CSX employees performing service on foreign line tracks are governed by the foreign line

and must carry the rules, timetables, and special instructions of that line.



100.6 When a rule book or timetable is reissued or amended, it supersedes all previous versions

on the effective date and time. Employees must:

	1. Obtain a copy,
	
	2. Verify the document is complete, and
	
	3. Have the documents available for use.
	
101 - System and Division Bulletins and Notices

101.1 Before beginning work, employees must determine if any bulletins or notices have been

issued since their last tour of duty, and:

	1. Read and comply with all of the bulletins that affect their tour of duty, and
	
	2. Read and comply with the information contained in notices.
	
101.2 The following applies to bulletins:

	1. System bulletins implement changes in rules and system-wide operating practices,
	
	2. Division bulletins implement changes in timetable special instructions, and
	
	3. Procedural instruction manuals implement changes in train dispatching operating
	
	practices.
	
101.3 System and division bulletins and notices will:

101.4 System bulletins will be in the following format:

	1. There will be one System Bulletin (SB) per Section:
	
		1. Operating Rules - Carried by All and Foreign Line
		
		2. Dispatcher Rules - Carried by Dispatchers only
		
		3. Roadway Worker Rules - Carried by Engineering Forces and Dispatchers
		
		4. Safe Way - Carried by All
		
		5. Equipment Handling - Carried by All and Foreign Line
		
		6. Air Brake and Train Handling - Carried by All
		
		7. Hazmat (HM-1) - Carried by All
		
		8. Positive Train Control - Carried by Transportation when operating in PTC
		
		Territory
		
		9. PTC Procedural Instructions - Carried by Transportation when operating in
		
		PTC Territory
		
	2. Only one CSX System Bulletin per section will be in effect,
	
	3. When future modifications are made to each section the previous system bulletin
	
	will be cancelled, and
	
	4. When a System Bulletin is issued, Item 1 will provide a summary of changes being
	
	made and a listing of the bulletin numbers in effect.
	
102 - CSX Standard Time

102.1 CSX standard time is equivalent to United States Eastern Time using the 24-hour clock

system. CSX standard time can be determined by:

	a. Time displayed by the dispatching system, or
	
	b. Contacting the control station, or
	
	c. Calling RNX 388-5000 or Bell 904-381-5000.
	
102.2 Employees governed by timetables, dispatcher messages, or Form EC-1 must carry a watch

that:

	1. Indicates hours, minutes, and seconds; and
	
	2. Must not lose or gain more than one minute in a 12-hour period.
	
102.3 Employees who are required to carry a watch must verify the watch is set to CSX standard

time before beginning work activity:

	1. The ranking employee of the crew or working group is to set his or her watch to CSX
	
	standard time, and
	
	2. Other members of the crew or working group are to set their watches to that of the
	
	ranking employee.
	
